#summary Installation Tips for installing Symfony, the web framework used by the MyIsern-lime system.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This page will walk you through installing [http://www.symfony-project.org Symfony] on your system. Much of the information presented here can be found on the [http://www.symfony-project.org/installation Installation Page of the Symfony Project].

= Installing Symfony with LAMP on Ubuntu =

You must first install PHP 5, Apache/2.2.4, Mysql 5 & PHP Pear. Pear is the PHP Extension and Application Repository. You will also need the php-xml and php5-xsl packages.

=== Installing Symfony on Ubuntu ===

The following sequence will enable you to get the system install on Ubuntu Linux:

*Install LAMP and other required php packages*
  # sudo apt-get install php5 apache2 mysql-server
  # sudo apt-get install php-xml-util php5-xsl
  # (Optional, mysql admin tool) sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin
  # Test the apache installation by going to http://127.0.0.1/apache2-default or   http://127.0.0.1/phpmyadmin if you installed phpmyadmin

*Install Symfony*
  # Edit /etc/apt/sources.list with your favorite editor (sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list )
  # add the following line at the end of the file:
     deb http://www.symfony-project.org/get debian/
  # sudo apt-get update
  # sudo apt-get install php5-symfony php-pear php5-mysql
  
This should install the dependencies for php5-symfony which include php5-cli, php5-common, php-pear, php5-mysql, php5-pgsql.

If you don't want to install the .deb package, you can install using pear. Follow the [http://www.symfony-project.org/installation Symfony installation instruction] found on the Symfony website.


= Installing Symfony on Windows =

The [http://www.symfony-project.org/installation  Symfony Project Installation Page] has articles describing how to install Symfony on Windows. Begin by installing [http://www.wampserver.com/en/ WAMP 2.0]. Next, follow the step-by-step directions for [http://trac.symfony-project.com/wiki/HowToInstallPearOnWindowsWithWamp How to install PEAR on windows with WAMP] and [http://trac.symfony-project.com/wiki/HowToInstallSymfonyOnWindowsWithWamp How to install Symfony on windows with WAMP]. The only difference will be that the php directory they describe will be has changed in WAMP 2.0. It can be found in C:\wamp\bin\php\php5.2 NOT C:\wamp\php. 

= Installing Symfony on Mac =

The [http://www.symfony-project.org/installation  Symfony Project Installation Page] has articles describing how to install Symfony on Macs. The following is a summary of what is provide:
  * [http://trac.symfony-project.com/wiki/InstallingSymfonyOnMacOSXWithPHPBinaryFromEntropy Installing Symfony on MacOsX with php5 binary from entropy] (This one looks the easiest.)

  * [http://trac.symfony-project.com/wiki/SymfonyMacOsXIntel Install a Symfony on a MacBook Pro]

= Another Solution =

If you are on Windows and you have a lot of memory and hard disk space, you could install Ubuntu on [http://www.virtualbox.org VirtualBox] and install the system on Ubuntu. Follow the instructions here:
 [http://www.simplehelp.net/2007/05/13/how-to-install-ubuntu-studio-in-windows-using-virtualbox-a-complete-walkthrough/ How to install ubuntu studio in windows]

This is risk free way to try out a full linux desktop environment. After doing this perhaps you will see the light and [http://www.tuxmagazine.com/node/1000117 Switch to linux]

Now you are ready to Install MyIsern. There is a [InstallationGuide Production Installation]  Guide as well as a [DeveloperInstallationGuide Developer Installation Guide]